2022/03/14 3:01:01 PM AST	205	Abbott	cc "bleeding"  Abbott is a 35F presenting w 14 d of heavy constant uterine bleeding and constant lower abdominal/pelvic cramping. she soaks through 4 heavy pads and 4 tampons daily. also feels fatigued, lightheaded, thirsty. denies nausea. she has a hx of irregular menstrual cycles lasting 5-14 d, last was 3 wks, "never this much bleeding". she does not think shes pregnant as her last cycle was 3 wks ago. no hx of bleeding disorder. she has not noticed any abnormally long bleeding following dental procedures etc.  meds - none allergies - penicillin  pmhx - healthy, no conditions - no surgeries - obgyn hx as noted in hpi  fam hx - mother hysterectomy due to AUB - uncle required blood transfusion for unknown reason  social - no smoking or drugs - etoh 1 glass of wine daily  VS 120/78, 72, 16, 98F General - dizzy appearing woman laying sideways on exam table Chest - anterior lungs CTAB Heart - RRR, s1 s2 no mrg Abdomen - tender to deep palpation in lower quadrants, normal BS, no masses Pelvic - deferred  35F presenting w 2 weeks of menorrhagia and clear signs of dehydration including increased thirst and orthostatic lightheadedness. vitals stable. differential includes PCOS, hypo or hyperthyroidism. uterine cancer unlikely given age. bleeding disorder suggested by famhx but she has never had abnormal bleeding concerns. given hx of abnormal menst cycles. pregnancy unlikely given recent menstruation and inconsistent with presentation.  - BMP, CBC for dehydration, possible anemia, low threshold to hydrate IV - TSH, LH, FSH to workup menorrhagia - bHCG to r/o pregnancy - obgyn consulted - pelvic ultrasound    
2022/03/14 3:30:33 PM AST	205	Williams	cc "yellow eyes"  spoke w mother of 5 day old james williams.   this morning he developed yellowing of both eyes. baby was born w jaundiced skin but white eyes. at age 2 d, he saw pediatrician who said that jaundice is normal and to follow. since then, jaundice has become more pronounced. no changes in BM/urinary frequency (6-8 wet diapers daily) or BM colour (yellow brown). vaginal birth was uncomplicated except for mother being GBS+, received appropriate antibiotics. baby is without fever, emesis, or irritability. able to sleep normally and eat every 2-3hrs, breastfed. this was mothers only pregnancy, and she had similar condition when she was a baby as well. he lost a couple oz of weight since birth.  meds/allergies none  pmhx - uncomplicated vaginal birth - born to G1P1 mother - mother was GBS+ and received appropriate antibiotics - born in hospital and received all shots - mother was not on medications  famhz - mother w similar jaundice when she was baby  social - no smokers in house - breastfeed 2-3x daily - no formula supplem  no vs or phys exam due to virtual visit  baby williams is a 5 d old baby presenting with worsening skin jaundice and new icterus. no signs of infection or behavioural distrubance per mother. likely peak of physiologic jaundice given presence at birth and time frame. could also be genetic bilirubinemia. unlikely to be structural cause like bile obstruction as his stools are normal.  - follow up w pediatrician - recommend obtaining labs including LFT, BMP, CBC - mother counselled about kernicterus and to bring baby to emergency room if he becomes increasingly irritable or behaviourally unstable 
2022/03/14 3:59:25 PM AST	205	Smith	cc "back pain"  jane smith is a 39F presenting w acute back pain. yesterday, she was helping someone w yardwork, bent to pick up twigs and felt sudden severe lower back pain. also with shooting pain down posterior left leg. denies left leg pain associated with weakness. it hurts to walk or move spine. she has tried rest and heating pads but no relief. her friend gave her percocet and valium, pt reports this helped. denies abdominal pain, abnormal BM, last menstrual cycle 2 wks ago and normal,   allergic to motrin, codeine meds none  pmhx - healthy - no surgeries - no prior back or joint issues - no previous injuries - menstruation monthly  famhx - mom DM2 - dad HTN  social - smokes 1 pack per week x 10 y - etoh 1-2 beers every few days - no drugs - works at amazon fulfillment and is concerned that pain will impair work which she cannot afford  vs 120/78, 72, 16, 98 general - woman in pain hunched while seated in exam chair chest - lungs CTAB heart - rrr, no mrg, normal s1 s2 spine: lumbosacral spinal tenderness to palpation, no pain in thoracic/cervical spine, full ROM spine including flexion and extension, no abnormal spinous processes hips - full ROM b/l, no pain on palpation of greater troch walk test without antalgic gait but clear back pain  39 F w no sig med hx presenting with acute back pain from bending over. likely dx is lumbar strain, a benign condition common in her demographic. less likely disc herniation but possible. expedite workup so she can avoid missing work - lumbar x-ray - sick note given - tylenol - diclofenac gel 
2022/03/02 2:33:00 PM AST	206	Cage	S: Mr. GC is a middle aged Caucasian male with a 5 year history of hypertension, on Lisinopril and Chlorthalidone, with a 20 pack year history presenting with several days of intermittent chest pain during exertion. He has had episodes of chest pain in the past that were less severe, but more recently, he had 7/10 central chest pain, described as pressure, while carrying groceries that improved with rest. The pain is localized to the center of his chest and lasts for 5-10 minutes. family history significant for father with coronary artery disease required bypass surgery, mother who died from a PE and Type 2 DM.  O: All vital signs are within normal limits PE:  Gen: Awake, alert, well groomed, in no acute distress CV Exam: Bilateral upper and lower extremities are warm, well perfused. No LE edema. Radial pulses are 2+ BL. DP Pulses are 2+ BL. No appreciable physical deformities or scars. No murmurs, rubs or gallops on auscultation while seated or supine. Normal S1 nd S2, no S3 or S4.  Lungs clear to auscultation with no wheezing, no friction rubs  A: This is a middle aged male with a history of hypertension, smoker wiho presents with episodic chest pressure, likely related to stable angina. Other differentials include unstable angina, pulmonary embolism, GERD, anxiety.   Plan:  Obtain EKG, echo and troponins Counsel on healthy ligestyle choices Start on beta blocker  
2022/03/02 3:03:03 PM AST	206	Johnson	S: CJ is a 48 year old woman with no significant past medical history presenting today for evaluation of 1 month of fatigue, decreased appetite, decreased libido and daily headaches. She has been feeling irritable and depressed and had difficulty concentrating. Four days ago she was involved in a car accident in which she rear ended a parked car which she attributes to her fatigue. She did not sustain any injuries during this car accident. She has not noticed any changes to her sleep habits, just that she wakes up not feeling rested. She drinks -6 glasses of wine per day and recently argued with her daughter who felt that she drinks excessively. She slapped her daughter during this verbal altercation which she feels guilty about. She has not noticed any weight loss of gain, lower extremity edema, no chest pain or abdominal pain. She takes no medications. She has not experienced these feelings before. Denies suicidal ideation, homicidal ideation, auditory and visual hallucinations. She has smoked a PPD since she was 16. Fam hx significant for alcoholism in her father.  O: Vitals are within normal limits.  General: Patient is awake, appears fatigued, yawns frequently, is laying reclined on the exam table and is in no acute distress.  Chest and Lung: Lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally. No murmurs, rubs or gallops appreciated. Radial Pulse 2+ in RUE  HEENT: Thyroid not palpable.  A: Ms. CJ 48 year old woman with no significant past medical history who presents with a one month history of fatigue that caused her to be involved in a car accident, poor concentration, decreased appetite and libido consistent with Major Depressive Disorder in the setting of excessive alcohol consumption. Other differentials include alcohol use disorder, hypothyroidism and obstructive sleep apnea Plan:  -Obtain CBC, TSH,T4 -Obtain collateral history from family member -Begin SSRI -Begin psychotherapy or CBT  
2022/03/02 3:31:36 PM AST	206	Travis	S: Middle aged woman presenting with several hours of severe 10/10, sharp, constant abdominal pain that started in the epigastric region radiating to her back and has spread to her entire abdomen. She vomited once at midnight before arriving at the ED and has not eaten since. Tried TUMS with no relief. PMH significant for HTN, HLD, 45 pack year smoking history, drinks alcohol daily. She is sweaty, has chills and a fever. No sick contacts. Review of systems negative for chest pain, headache, hematuria, hematochezia, diarrhea, constipation, muscle weakness, weight loss or gain, dysuria. Lives with her husband who brought her to the ED.   O: Febrile, hypotension, tachycardia PE:  General: Patient is awake, alert, supine on exam table, appears distressed and in pain. Abdominal Exam: No visible scars, rashes or deformities. Scaphoid abdomen. Normoactive bowel sounds. Abdomen is soft, tender to light palpation in all four quadrants. No rebound or guarding.  Chest and Lung: No murmurs, rubs or gallops. Lungs clear to auscultation BL Extremities: Warm and well perfused. Radial pulses 2+ bilaterally  A: Middle aged woman presenting with acute onset of severe epigastric pain radiating to her back, fever, anorexia and vomiting consistent with acute pancreatitis. PMH significant for HTN, HLD, smoking history and daily alcohol use and physical exam notable for diffuse abdominal pain.  Other differentials to rule out: gastroenteritis, appendicitis, diverticulitis, peptic ulcer Plan:  -Admit to floor  -Start IV Morphine, obtain RUQ ultrasound, obtain CBC, BMP, Lipase, Amylase, GGT,  -keep patient NPO, give zofran as needed for nausea 
2022/03/02 3:59:09 PM AST	206	Abbott	S: 35 year old G1P0 presenting with heavy menstrual bleeding for 2 weeks with dizziness and lightheadedness. She uses pads and tampons which she changes four times a day and still has some leakage as well as clots. Her menstrual periods before this were irregular and had pain and cramping associated with them. age of menarche was 14. She does not have bleeding between periods. She was pregnancy once which ended with an early pregnancy loss. She is not on any form of contraception and has not tried any in the past. She is sexually active and uses condoms with her partner. She does not have pain with intercourse. Family history significant for heavy menstrual bleeding in her mother, who had a hysterectomy and an unknown bleeding disorder in her maternal uncle. No personal history of blood clots or family history of clots, no liver or kidney problems that the patient is aware of.  O: Vital signs are within normal limits Physical Exam:  General: Awake, alert, laying supine on exam table, in no acute distress.  Chest and Lung: Clear to auscultation. No murmurs, rubs or gallops appreciated.  A: 35 year old G1P0 woman presenting for evaluation of heavy menstrual bleeding for 2 weeks with family history significant for heavy menstrual bleeding in mother, highly suspicious for von willebrand's disease. Other differentials include leiomyomas, adenomyosis, endometriosis. Plan:  -Obtain CBC and BMP  -Transfuse if hemoglobin is below 7 -Transvaginal ultrasound to look for anatomical causes of heavy bleeding such as leiomyomas or adenomyosis -Start OCP since patient is amenable or progestin only contraception options    
2022/03/02 4:32:50 PM AST	206	Williams	S: Baby boy James Williams is a 5 day old born, 7lbs 4oz full term to G1P1 mom via spontaneous vaginal delivery presenting today for evaluation of "yellow eyes". Mom has noticed yellowness throughout the body and specifically in the eyes this morning that has worsened since discharge from the hospital. Of note, Mom was GBS+ and reports treatment with antibiotics prior to delivery. Baby and mom were discharged from the hospital at 24 hours of life. Per mom, James was 7lbs and 6ounces at birth and has lost two ounces per their pediatrician who they saw on day of life 3. Mom reports that James received all routine newborn care and is up to date on vaccinations. He has been drinking breastmilk exclusively every 3 hours with no trouble and produces 6-8 wet diapers per day. He has a bowel movement after each feeding. Mom has not noticed any changes in behavior, energy or muscle tone. Family history significant for jaundice in mother at birth. Baby's blood type and mom's blood type not obtained.  O: not provided A: James Williams is a 5 year old baby boy presenting with a one day history of yellow eyes in the setting of adequate feeding and bowel movements consistent with breastfeeding jaundice. Further lab testing is needed to differentiate between a conjugated or unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia which would allow differentiation between production or clearance problems. Other differentials include neonatal sepsis, hemolysis, Crigler Najjar or Gilbert syndrome or idiopathic hyperbilrubinemia.  P: The patient should come in for exam and vital signs  CBC, Tbili, and unconjugated bilirubin should be obtained. Serial bilirubins should be measured at each outpatient visit.  Patient may need hospital admission pending lab results. Phototherapy can be offered if needed  Follow up pending lab results
2022/03/02 5:11:45 PM AST	206	Smith	S: 39 year old woman presenting with a one day history of constant 8/10 back pain that was brought on while bending to do yard work. she felt a sudden twinge in her back that radiated down to her Left leg. No numbness or tingling associated. No trouble urinating or having a bowel movement. The pain interferes with her ability to work and complete daily tasks and her walking is slower. She took a Percocet and Valium that was provided by her sister in law which she says helped somewhat. She has no medical problems otherwise, takes no daily medications and reports that codeine and motrin cause her stomach to be upset. Movement of any kind worsens the pain and there is no position that improves it.  O: Vitals are within normal limits Physical Exam:  General: Awake, alert, no acute distress, seated on exam table  Neurological:  Mental status exam: oriented x 3  Cranial nerve exam not performed  No palpable spinal deformities, or abnormal curvatures noted. No palpable stepoffs. Lumbar spine was tender to palpation Muscle strength in BLE 5/5 Patellar reflexes 2+ BL  Straight leg raise was negative for pain bilaterally  A: 39 year old woman with a one day history of acute onset low back pain radiating to the left leg relieved only somewhat by Percocet and Valium. No focal neurologic deficits noted on exam and straight leg test was negative. Differentials include muscle spasm, lumbar disc herniation and sciatica.  Plan:  -Counsel patient on appropriate pain control and use of prescription medications -Begin scheduled Tylenol, lidocaine and muscle relaxants for pain control and follow up to look for improvement in 3 days  -If no improvement, schedule pt for MRI of Lumbar Spine to look for disc herniation  
2022/02/28 10:41:36 AM AST	207	Smith	Jane smith is a 28 y/o female presenting with 1d of sharp lower back pain with radiating pain down the left leg to the knee. The pain started yesterday when she was helping her dad lift some heavy things in the yard and she felt the pain. She denies any other symptoms such as fever, chills, weakness, urinary discomfort, or palpitations. She is taking some percocet and valium left over from her sister which seems to help.  PMHx: no relevant pmhx Social: smokes 1pack/d for 10y, no alcohol or illicit drugs Family hx: no relevant family history surgical hx: no previous surgeries  Medications: Percocet and valium Allergies: motrin- upset stomach  Objective: HR 72 BP 120/78 Resp 16 Temp 98 General: young adult women in appropriate dress, well nourished, moderate distress due to pain HENT: EOMI, mmm, no conjunctival injection Cardiovascular: RRR, no m/r/g MSK: Tenderness to palpation of vertebral bodies at L2-L3. Tenderness to palpation of L paravertebral muscles but R nontender to palpation. Full range of motion through flexion, extension, and rotation of spine with radiating pain to L knee in extension. negative straight leg raise. Hips nontender, full ROM. Neg adams test Neuro: Patellar and achilles reflexes 2+ b/l. sensation and motor intact in b/l LE  Assessment: 28 y/o female with 1d of acute lower back pain radiating down left leg to knee. Exam notable for reproducible radiating pain with extension as well as tenderness to palpation over L2/L3 and L paraspinal muscles. Most likely herniated disc due to localized tenderness to palpation, radiating pain, and history of injury while lifting heavy object. Other differentials include vertebral osteomyolitis but no signs of infection, scoliosis. -order xray -prescribe mobic due to history of allergy to ibuprofen for pain relief -can also take acetamenophne for some relief -will reassess pain in 1w with possible referral to PT  Zach mayo M3 
2022/02/28 11:10:41 AM AST	207	Cage	47 y/o male presenting for an episode of deep aching central chest pain 3d ago while carrying heavy groceries from the grocery store. He reports associated SOB however the symptoms improved when he sat down to rest. Denies n/v, sweating, palpitations, dizziness, chagnes in vision, or recent leg swelling. Hx of HTN however run 120s/80s at home. Hx of similar episodes in the past while running or doing exercise.  PMHx: HTN Social: smokes 1p/d 20y family: mom: diabetes PE, Dad: Heart attack in 40s, cardiac bypass surgery  Meds: clorthalidone 25mg PO daily, lisinopril 10mg PO daily  Objective: HR 85 BP 150/92 RR 14 T98.0 General: alert, awake, oriented, well appearing man in appropriate dress and no acute distress HENT: EOMI, mmm, no conjunctival injection Cardiovascular: Pulses 2+ in all extremities, RRR, no m/r/g, no peripheral edema, PMI 2cm in 5th intercostal space Pulm: CTAB, no wheezes/rhonchi/crackles Abd: soft, nontender, nondistended, +BS, no HSM  Assessment: 47 y/o male with PMHx of HTN presenting with episode 3d ago of nonradiating deep substernal pressure while carrying heavy groceries and history of similar pain with exercise. Exam and interview notable for 20 pack year smoking history, family history of father with heart attack in 40s, and elevated BP but normal cardiovascular exam. Most likely stable angina given family history, histroy of hypertension and several episodes of deep pain with shortness of breath when exercising. Other differentials include GERD, PE, hypertensive emergency, myocarditis. -ecg today -will refer to cardiology for stress test -start 81mg aspirin  Zach Mayo M3  
2022/02/28 11:37:16 AM AST	207	Johnson	Ms Johnson presents today with ~1m of extreme tiredness, decreased energy and a depressed mood. She reports a history of feeling tired when waking up as well as decreased concentration, headaches, and decreased libido. When asked if she has less interest in doing the things she likes she says maybe some but that she does not have many hobbies. Right now her husband travels for works and she feels this is contributing to what is going on. She denies fever, chills, weight loss, constipation, diarrhea, or recent illness. Also states that her husband does not report any snoring at night.  -No significant PMHx -no relevant family history, no anxiety depression bipolar disorder or hypothyroidism -drinks 5-6 glasses of wine a night, smokes 1p/day since age of 16 -has two sons  No meds or allergies  Objective HR 78 BP 120/71 Resp 14 Temp 98.0 Gen: Awake alert oriented, no acute distress HENT: No lymphadenopathy, EOMI, mmm, no thyroid nodules or thyromegaly Cardiovascular: RRR, no m/r/g Lungs: CTAB, no wheezing or crackles Abdomen: soft, nontender nondistended Psych: depressed affect, flat tone, answers questions appropriately  Assessment: Mrs. Johnson presents with 1m of depressed mood, decreased energy,  and tiredness but no other associated sx. No SI or HI. Differential include major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, OSA, lupus, or cancer. MDD most likely due to depressed mood, decreased concentration, decreased libido, decreased sleep, tiredness for 4w as well as no other symptoms. -will refer to our behavioral health team to talk about situation with husband -start sertraline 50mg PO Daily -f/u in 6w  Zach Mayo (M3)
2022/02/28 12:04:14 PM AST	207	Travis	Ms Travis is a 61 y/o female with PMHx of HTN and HLD who presents to the ED with severe abdominal pain that began in the epigastric region and now is across the whole abdomen. She reports associated N/V, sweating, and chills. Denies recent illness or sick contact, no palpitations, light headedness, changes in vision, or headaches. Reports some pain after eating earlier in the night that just continued to get worse despite taking tums.  Fmhx: Dad heart attack 53, mom stroke 82 -smokes 1p/d for 45y  Medications: metoprolol, omelsartan, simvastatin, tums Allergies: penecillin  Objective HR 110 BP 100/60 Resp 24 Temp 101.4 Gen: alert, awake, oriented woman lying on exam table in distress due to pain HENT: mmm, EOMI Card: RRR, no m/r/g, pulses 2+ throughout Lungs: CTAB anteriorly Abd: soft, diffusely tender to palpation, +BS, + rebound no guarding  Assessment: 61 y/o female presenting with several hours of sharp abdominal pain that began in the epigastric region and now is diffuse across the abdomen with associated N/V. Exam notable for low grade fever 100.4, HR 110, BP 100/60 as well as rebound tenderness on exam suspicious for acute abdomen. Most likely differential is a perforated peptic ulcer given history of indigestion as well as first epigastric pain with now peritoneal signs however differential also includes ruptured AAA, PE, cholecystitis, pancreatitis, and appendicitis. Hemodynamically stable. -order CT of abdomen to assess cause -consult general surgery -start IV fluids given poor PO intake -zofran PO PRN For nausea -acetaminophen PRN for fevers -morphine PRN for pain -will hold off on abx for now given history of acute symptoms onset as well as low grade fever likely due to pain and inflammation, will give if sx worsen or BP drops without clear other cause  Zach Mayo (M3)
2022/02/28 12:32:39 PM AST	207	Abbott	40 y/o woman with no significant PMHx who presents iwth 14 d of heavy menstrual bleeding. Reports hx of irregular periods in the past but this is different with 14 d of bleeding soaking through 4 pads and 4 tampons per day. Associated light headedness, tired, lower abdominal pain and excessive thirst. Denies n/v, palpitations, urinary symptoms, or SOB. Taking aleve which helps some.  OB hx: miscarriage several years ago, G0, irregular cycles lasting 5-14d Family hx: no coag disorders, mom hysterectomy unknown reason -glass of wine daily, no tobacco or illicit drugs -sexually active with 1 partner, uses condoms inconsitently  no meds allergic to penecillin  objective: Orthostatics 126/80 64 lying, 120/78 72 sitting, 100/72 86 standing RESP 16 Temp 98 General: alert, oriented, in moderate distress lying down due to fatigue HENT: EOMI, no conjunctival injection Card: RRR, no m/r/g, pulses 2+ throughout Lung: CTAB, no signs of resp distress Abd: soft, nondistended, RLQ tenderness to palpation, +BS Genital exam: Uterus irregular in shape, 10w in size, no adnexal masses, no cervical motion tenderness  Assessment: Ms abbot is a 40 y/o woman presenting with 14 days of heavy vaginal bleeding with associated fatigue, light headedness and increased thirst. Exam notable for + orthostatics, irregular enlarge uterus but no adnexal masses or cervical motion tenderness. Most likely differential is uterine fibroid due to irregular shape and enlarged uterus with bleeding and no signs of infection. Differential includes ruptured ectopic, spontaneous abortion, adenomyosis. -will get UPT -draw CBC -give IV fluids due to + orthostatics  -US to visualize uterine lining and adnexa -will likely prescribe oral OCP at higher does to stop bleeding if fibroids are cause -send to ED if UPT is positive -will refer to OB for long term treatment once bleeding is controlled  zach mayo M3 
2022/02/28 12:59:52 PM AST	207	Williams	Baby boy Williams is a 5d old infant whose mother is calling after noticing yellowing of his eyes and skin. She states that she first noticed the yellowness after being discharged from the hospital and that she brought this up at her first checkup 2d ago however her pediatric office told her that everything seemed ok. She now reports continued yellow eyes and skin which is concerning to her. She denies any vomiting, fussiness, sleepiness or decreased feeding of her baby boy. She is feeding with breast milk and reports feeds every 3hrs with 6-8 wet and dirty diapers per day. Stool has transitioned and is now a seedy yellow.  Pregnancy history: spontaneous vaginal delivery at 39w born to G1P1 mother. GBS+ adequately treated with penicillin. No GDM. Birth weight 7lb 9 ounces Medical history: No significant history from first couple days of life Family history: no history of jaundice in family  No meds or known allergies  Objective: Unable to obtain vitals or exam due to interview conducted over zoom  Assessment: Baby boy Williams is a 5d old infant whose mother is calling due to 3d of yellow eyes and skin. Interview notable for no fussiness, increased sleepiness or decreased feeding and adequate feeding, wet diapers, and transitioned  yellow seedy stools. Most likely differential is breast milk jaundice due to adequate feeding, transitioned stools and history of jaundice seen by pediatric office without intervention. Also was normal birth weight without other risk factors for jaundice. Other differentials include breast feeding jaundice, gilberts syndrome, or hepatitis. -will bring into office for blood bilirubin check (total, conjugated and unconjugated) since we do not have records to previous labs or notes from pediatric visit -no further treatment at this time but can consider admission if bilirubin is above light level   Zach Mayo (M3)